Using Spring Boot to JPA, we can achieve object relational mapping.
Object Relational mapping creates an object oriented layer between our application and an SQL database.
In this lesson, we will use Spring Boot to JPA to create a student table inside of our relational database.
Now, in this course, I'm going to assume that you've never written any SQL code, so how the heck
are we going to create a student table in our SQL database without actually writing any SQL?
Well, the first step of the process is to tell Spring JPA that we're going to be saving student entities.
An entity is a Java object that spring boot to JPA can manage by telling Spring JPA that we need to
save student entities.
Our request is forwarded to an object relational mapper, which in turn creates a student table.
Step two of the process is that each field that we put into our entity is going to map to a table column.
This entity has three fields, so our student table is going to have three columns, ID name and birth.
Now this step is really important.
A primary key column uniquely identifies every single record inside of our table.
So here I am, saving a bunch of entities into my database.
And for every single entity that I save through spring JP's repository, our table needs to assign each
entity that we save a unique identity.
Because the ID for each entity is different.
It allows us to make queries.
Now I can say Fetch me the student with an ID of two.
And it's going to send back Ron's roe.
I've already gone ahead and ran my application and connect it to the H two console.
And here, if I wanted to create a table using plain old SQL, I would enter something like the following.
Now you don't have to do what I'm doing.
Just watch.
For now, I'm going to create a table using SQL syntax.
I'll run this command and here it creates a student table.
I will delete this command, click on my table and here it auto generates a query that selects everything
from our student table.
I will run it.
And here we see a table with ID name and birth in accordance with the SQL query that I ran earlier.
And obviously our table is empty.
Now here's the thing courtesy of spring GPUs object relational layer.
We don't have to write any SQL in order to generate this table.
First, we have to tell spring GPA that will be saving student entities.
Now we'll go over to our Student Poe class and by virtue of just marking our project class with the
entity annotation.
We're basically telling Spring by JPA, Hey, we're going to need you to create a table that can store
student entities.
We can specify the name of that table by first saying Table.
For some reason it did not autocomplete.
All right.
And the name of that table is going to be student.
Notice that I'm using all lowercase.
And in step two, each field in the entity will map to a table column.
The column annotation maps a field to a column.
Every single field in our student entity will map to a column in the student table.
The ID field is going to map to an ID column, so we'll say column.
Name is equal to ID.
The name Field will map to a name column.
And the birth date field is going to map to a birth date column.
Now, if the name is more than one word, the convention is to use underscore.
So in Java you would use camel case.
Here you would use snake case, I think is what it's called.
Okay.
Now, one thing we need to make sure of is any value that gets stored inside of the name column.
It cannot be knowable.
We're going to say no label equals false.
We'll do the same thing over here.
Knowable equals false.
We cannot have null birthdays or null names.
Now if I were to actually run my application for now.
And it doesn't even run.
It just crashes.
As always, never panic.
Look at the stack trace and try to find the meaningful error message.
They were creating being oc da da da da da.
No identifier specified for entity students.
This brings me to my next point.
A primary key column uniquely identifies every row.
The database needs to assign each row a unique identity.
The field that maps to our primary key column must be assigned the ID annotation.
So here we have to say at ID whenever we create a new student entity and save it to our student table,
the identity of that student needs to be auto generated.
We can actually use a very special annotation called Generated Value.
For some reason my editor is very sluggish today and we will auto generate the ID using a strategy of
generation type dot identity.
Beautiful.
Now, what we're going to do is reconnect to our database.
So I'll rerun my application.
Okay.
And now remember that our H two and memory relational database is volatile.
It's set up to reset every time we run the application.
So as soon as I press run, it's going to prompt me to reconnect to this new database instance.
And this is just amazing by simply telling Spring Boot JPA that we're going to be saving student entities,
it automatically creates a table that is capable of storing these entities.
It creates a relational table, and we did not have to write any SQL.
We're able to create an SQL table using a pod class, if you ask me, this is very powerful and if I
were to click on the table at auto generates a query that selects everything from that table and obviously
the table is empty.
And notice that every single column inside of our table is mapped by the columns specified in our definition
of what an entity will be.
So to recap in this lesson, you created a student table.
First we created a table using plain old SQL, but we're not here to write any SQL statements.
We were able to leverage Spring Boot JP's object relational layer by simply annotating a mojo class.
The name of that table was derived from the table annotation and the columns of our table were derived
from the column annotation.
Spring Boot magic is truly something to behold.